INTRODUCTION

1. ΤΗΕ prosecution of Gaius Verres for extortion took
place in the year ΒΩ. 70, in the consulship of Gnaeus
Pompeius and Marcus Crassus. Cicero was then a
rising advocate, thirty-seven years of age, steadily
winning his way to a foremost place in his profession.
Oritical though the case was freni Cicero's point of
view—for on the success or failure of this, his first
great, public prosecution, his future career largely
depended,—yet‚ for us it derives its chief interest, and
importance from the nature of the charge, rather than
from the individuality either of the defendant or
prosecutor. For during the course of the prosecution
many a side-light is thrown en the system of Roman
provincial government: the wauton cruelty, oppres-
sion‚ and avarice to which the provincials were sub-
jected at, the hands of a rapacious and unprincipled
governor are brought, out into high relies: and
though allowance be made for rhetorical exaggeration
and the bitterness of persona] enniity, there yet
remains a lifelike pertrait, of a typieal provincial
Πύθι’, of which the exaggerated light and shade serve
merely to intensify the vivid reality of the main out-
lines,

